# Differences from v1.6    ## Changes that might break the conversion:    - **General**  Most assigned identifier names cannot start with numbers or be only numbers.    - **Defines**  Define variables must now come between parenthesis `()`.  `PRINT` built in define now is only `[?]`    - **Declares**  There is no more declaration of standard long named variables.  Declare only to reserve short names.  `~` now is used to keep a long name when converting to classic.    - **Functions**  Now ends with `RET` instead of `RETURN`.  Functions do not share names with labels anymore.    - **Includes**  Do not share namespace with other files except for short named variables.    - **Line breaks**  Line breaks are not supported inside quotations or `REM`s.  Underscores line break must be separated by spaces from alphanumeric characters.    ## (Almost) complete list of changes    **General**    - All spaces are ignored even inside enclosed literals like labels and defines ie: `[ aa ]`.  - Label report with `>` for jumps and `<` for lines.  - Recommended use of spaces as indentation for better column error reporting.  - Update function autocomplete replacing `RETURN` with `RET`.  - If the `.ini` is not found a new one will be automatically generated and the program will exit.  - Error now points to the character position (use spaces for indentation or define the tab spaces).  - Can save lexer and parser token reports.  - Can export line numbers report.  - To run batoken.py use  `python -m Modules.msx.msxbatoken` from the badig folder.  - The Tokenizer can be separated by placing all modules on the same folder as the main file.    **Highlight**  *Classic/List*  - List: Differentiate line number addresses from tokens and some labels.  - Classic: `REM`s highlighting with instruction scope.    *Dignified*  - Added `RET`.  - Accepts toggle rems with joined `#a#b` and forbid start with number.  - Added `EXIT`  - `[?]` in place of `[?@]` and with define color instead of operator color.  - Define can be adjacent to `[` with no spaces.  - Declare now follow all the rules.  - `input # 1` with separated `#` works correctly.  - `REM` not highlighting anymore if touching another word character.  - `AS` no more highlighting even in the middle of a variable like `casa$`.  - `ENDIF` now scope color of the Dignified exclusive functions.  - `REM` highlighting with instruction scope.  - `REM` and `'` not highlighting the next line if ending with `_` or `:`.  - Removed warning  on `ENDIF` after `DATA` with `_` or `REM` with `_` or `:`.  - Remtags with indentations now highlighting.    **Settings**  - Added TAB length to find the position of the text in columns.  - Added `-id` to select current working classic system (also on the build).  - Added JSON with system descriptions.    **Line separating**  - Dignified separator `_` must be separated from last character if it is a word.  - Literals (except `DATA`) cannot have `_` at the end to join lines.    **Cleanups**  - Separate words ending in `X` and `OR` to avoid `XOR` by mistake.  - Separate hex numbers followed by words beginning with `A` to `F` to avoid mistake.  - Remove duplicated `:`.  - Blank lines are always removed except inside rem blocks.  - All prescinding and trailing spaces are removed.  - There is no more keep general spaces, its remove all or keep one.  - Indentation is not kept anymore.    **Remtags**  - Remtags arguments work even when not on build.  - Remtags have precedence over command line arguments.    **Toggle rems**  - Can be put together `#a#b#none`.  - `##` is seen as an exclusive rem, `###` is an error.  - Cannot start with numbers.  - Must be declared before it is used.  - Do not check closing block if told to keep.  - `#all` keeps everything `#none` remove all. `#none` have precedence.    **Includes**  - Toggle rems, functions, labels, defines have independent namespaces.  - Cannot declare same variables on includes.  - Long names are assigned different short ones across includes to preserve namespace  - Warning if same the same hardcoded variable is used across includes.    **Quotes**  - Adjacent quotes join automatically even on next line.    **Functions**  - Can have anything after a function definition.  - Do not share names with labels anymore.  - Can take empty arguments.  - Do not need `arg=arg` on definition anymore.  - On reports `<` denotes a function definition and `>` a function call.    **Labels**  - Can have anything after them, loop or regular.  - Can have anything before loop label close.  - Do not share names with functions anymore.  - `EXIT` go to the line after the loop label is closed.  - On reports `<` denotes a label line, `>` a label jump and `*` a loop labels exit.    **Defines**  - Define must come before the use on the code.  - Must use `()` after a define to pass a variable  - `[?](X,Y)` is the new `LOCATE X,Y:PRINT` define.  - Definitions can be adjacent to the define instruction.  - Can define variables in multiple places but they will all be the same.    **Declares / variables**  - Do not need `~` to declare variables, just use them.  - `~` keeps the long named variable when converting.  - `~` cannot be used on a short named variable.  - Long named variables are case insensitive.  - Never assign numbers automatically to short vars.  - Declare only for assigning explicit short names or reserving them.  - Declare cannot reserve 1 letter variable.  - Declare can have a two letter short variable alone to reserve it.  - Declare cannot declare 1 or 2 letter variable as long variables.  - Declare now take one letter short variable to reserve them.  - Can be declared anywhere.  - Hardcoded variables are not used by subsequent long variables substitutions.  - Warning given if short name already assigned is used directly.  - Warning if short name hard coded and alread used by substitution    **If**  - `ENDIF` now removed wherever it appears, can be used anywhere.  